American narco the unbelievable story of
Kerry woolsley and Danny sweep drug
dealers by day
rock stars by night by Matthew B Cox the
Mexican one Medina Gonzalez was on time
as usual
he pulled the mid-sized RV to a stop
just shy of the house Kerry hadn't
expected the RV typically Juan dropped
off around 30 to 40 pounds of marijuana
a week once he'd fronted him 200 pounds
always arriving in an aging Toyota
Corolla but Kerry wasn't concerned the
24 year old had only been selling weed
for a few months he mostly sold to
friends and friends of friends Kerry
didn't consider himself a drug dealer he
was a musician by all accounts a
talented one but the weight had begun to
swell the way Kerry saw it he was just
spreading the good times around to
like-minded individuals it was just a
little weed the stash house was in the
South Florida sticks a stone's throw
from the Everglades the perfect spot for
a clandestine drop of mid grade pot or
mids straight from Mexico
it wasn't the ultra expensive top-shelf
hydroponic marijuana
nor was it a low-grade cheap dirt weed
mid was a lime-green Mexican popcorn
damn-near cush quality and it was just
right for Florida's stoner crown one was
very secretive about his business overly
serious thought Kerry bordering on
paranoia the Mexican stepped out of the
RV and smile he was always very friendly
Kerry gleaned a hint of mischief in his
eyes and then it was gone one was
definitely a drug dealer
possibly cartel but Kerry wouldn't allow
himself to think about it come my friend
Juan said in broken English he waved
Kerry and his buddies Danny and Keith
over he and Kerry entered the rear of
the RV through a narrow side door Juan
lead between the front seats and removed
the CDs faceplate in the dash he pushed
a flat black makeshift button the
distinct sound of hydraulics could be
heard coming from underneath the vehicle
and a 1 foot by 1 foot section of the
carpet slowly raised up creating a
6-inch opening in the floor cool
whispered Kerry it was like something
out of a James Bond
movie one reached into the breach and
grabbed hold of something then he tugged
a pillow sized 20-pound bale of pot out
of the opening by a rope the package was
wrapped in clear cellophane multiple
times between each layer of plastic the
Bale had been coated with motor oil to
absorb the odor still the pungent aroma
of freshly harvested marijuana
overwhelmed him one-handed carry the
bundle and Kari handed it to Danny
standing outside the door Danny then
handed it to Keith who toted the bale
into the house Juan continued to pull
the rope which revealed a second pillow
full of weed then there was a third
fourth and a fifth in short order they
had formed a human chain somewhere
around the 17th bale carry got concerned
he'd never taken possession of more than
a couple hundred pounds hon Carey said
nervously chuckling I I can't move this
much no problem
replied Juan without slowing his pace he
handed Carey the next bundle and said
good product you sell no problem my
friend Juan didn't seem like the type of
guy you disappointed by xx Bale
Danny hissed Carey what's happening he
and Keith looked terrified neither of
them had ever seen more than twenty
pounds it's too much this is too much
Carey was baffled he kept thinking the
next one had to be the last but they
kept coming at 110 bales Juan announced
that's it my friend he exited the rear
of the RV padded carry on the shoulder
climbed into the driver's side door and
drove off Carey shuffled into the living
room feeling dazed the whole scene felt
surreal Danny's gaze was fixed on the
bundles haphazardly strewn around the
room anxiety radiating off him like a
gaseous vapor Keith was lying on the
couch with his fingers dug into his hair
taking deep gulps of air and mumbling I
can't be involved in this I can't be
involved in this
he was teetering somewhere between
hyperventilating and passing out oh my
god he whimpered I cannot be involved in
this there were stacks of weed piled up
in the corners of the room tower after
tower along the walls
cellophane wrapped pillows cover the
coffee tables the chairs in the Ottoman
there were bales everywhere everywhere
twenty-two hundred pounds a metric ton
of marijuana
with a wholesale value of more than
three million dollars Kerry could hardly
believe it
oh my god he thought I'm a drug dealer
the Sinaloa cartel known as the
Federation was the most powerful drug
trafficking syndicate the world has ever
seen
the Federation controlled trafficking
operations on an international scale
with the majority of its drug
distributed in the United States by the
time Kerry had gotten involved in
marijuana trafficking the Sinaloa
Federation had come to dominate the
marijuana trade the cartel operated
large-scale plantations in the Mexican
state of Sinaloa and the surrounding
Golden Triangle area it had also
established control over its territory
which included the American border
region stretching from San Diego
California to El Paso Texas
an area Mexicans call la Frontera the
frontier the Sinaloa Federation's
various factions controlled a
multi-billion dollar Network responsible
for smuggling hundreds of tons of
marijuana into the US for the cartel
every year
unbeknownst to Kerry and his partner
Danny they were on their way to becoming
an intricate piece in that chain I'm not
even a big pot smoker Kerry tells me
during our first interview at the low
security prison located within the
Coleman Federal Correctional Complex in
Central Florida it's late February 2017
and the rock star turned drug smuggler
is scheduled to be released in November
Kerry was raised in Fort Myers on
Florida's Gulf Coast just north of the
Everglades
his parents were ultra liberal
ex-hippies supportive and nurturing as a
kid marijuana wasn't discouraged or even
frowned upon still he only smoked
occasionally maybe once or twice a month
that's it right right I reply while
scribbling out a note we're sitting in a
fiberglass picnic table underneath an
aluminum awning in an area of the
recreation center there are flat screens
mounted on the wall behind us
Donald Trump is our new president and
he's talking about building the wall a
gaggle of homosexuals and transgenders
walk by and girlishly wave at me and
carry their hair is braided tight to
their scalps and cornrows three of them
have boob jobs one has the full package
silicon breasts hips and butt implants
all of them are wearing makeup
consisting of kool-aid and M&Ms
they have nicknames like bro Derrick
Tyler Swift
Nicki Minaj and Lady Kaka one of the
girls winks at Carrie he turns to me and
asks does it freak you out a little that
there are guys with tits in here it used
to I shrugged but what are you gonna do
after ten years inside the Federal
Bureau of Prisons not much shocks me
Carrie however despite his time inside
is still a babe in the woods oblivious
to the gang-related prison politics and
the potential dangers that lie around
every corner unlike the other inmates
that populate the prison Carrie shakes
people's hands and smiles constantly
he's energetic enthusiastic and upbeat
it's a little irritating during our
discussions I've noticed he tends to
minimize the scale of the smuggling ring
that led him to prison nothing however
about the documents or articles I've
read indicates Carrie and Danny were
running a small enterprise although the
Sinaloa Federation's operations within
the United States do take the form of a
supply chain that relies heavily on
compartmentalization each link in that
chain is only aware of their own
function and operational aspects it's
unlikely Carrie was unaware of the
cartels involvement so I say tell me
about Juan Carrie smiles and tells me
that Juan was a real nice guy
in fact one capetti Medina was the
organizer and leader of the Medina drug
trafficking organization an operation
responsible for the distribution of tons
of marijuana every month product being
smuggled through the Arizona Sonora
border by Joaquin el chapo Guzman's
faction of the Sinaloa cartel directly
to Medina's organization the marijuana
was then transported to Medina's
wholesale customers in Nevada Iowa
Virginia and throughout the southern
states one of whom was a certain
struggling musician living in South
Florida
gasps Kari I swear I had no idea Juan
was a cartel member Kerry Lee Woolsey
spent most of his preteen years grounded
he was a hyper kid always misbehaving at
school talking in class and spitting
spit balls that is when he went to
school he skipped quite a bit to hang
out at different girls houses his love
of music started with his father's
Garage Band by age 12 the music bug had
dug its teeth in deep Carrie would walk
around the house playing the air guitar
and singing we're not gonna take it by
Twisted Sister his mother Linda gave her
budding rock star a Yamaha guitar and
told him to give the real thing a try I
thought it would give him something to
do she says while he was grounded he was
always grounded Carrie locked himself in
his room watched some videos read a
couple of books and taught himself to
play like most natural talents music
came easy to him his mother recalls
hearing the Black Crowes she talks to
angels emanating from her son's room
irritated she barged in prepared to
chastise him for playing his stereo too
loud she was shocked to find Carrie
strumming his guitar and singing in
perfect pitch it was the most beautiful
thing I'd ever heard shortly thereafter
Carey began penning his own songs
original compositions heavily influenced
by popular 80s hair bands like Def
Leppard Skid Row and poison within
months of picking up guitar he'd formed
sweet madhouse with a group of friends
they practiced and practiced until
Carrie felt they were ready for their
first gig he convinced his parents to
rent out firemen's Hall in Coral Springs
Florida they passed out flyers and made
phone calls tickets ran $2 and for 50
cents extra
you got a soda just before Kerry's 14th
birthday sweet madhouse took the stage
to a crowd of over 500 screaming teens
he could hardly believe the turnout the
place was packed
halfway through there said some girl
threw her panties at my son says Linda
her panties she repeats with an audible
sigh I remember thinking my god what's
he got
self into after that there was no
stopping him
Carrie's father Papa acted as the band's
manager booking them at local clubs 14
nights carry in the band now calling
themselves smut jammed to their peers
they played weddings and just about
every school function
homecoming Sadie Hawkins prom etc after
a gig like an extraordinary gig this is
Carrie me and the smut boys would sit
around get high and dream about becoming
rockstars you know sex drugs and rock
and roll
Myo had a problem by the turn of the
century ishmael el mayo sam botta was
the head of the Sinaloa cartel this was
before the drug trafficking syndicate
had achieved international notoriety
back then it was merely one of a handful
of regional cartels operating out of
Western Mexico the Sinaloa cartel was
embroiled in full-blown gang warfare
simultaneously fighting the Tijuana
cartel from the north and it's more
powerful ally the gulf cartel in the
east while each of the West Coast
cartels operated independently they all
struggled with the same problem the rise
of the gulf cartel the gulf cartel had
established itself as the dominant drug
trafficking syndicate in north america
during the late 1990s a criminal
syndicate which operated out of
northeastern mexico under the leadership
of hace el Cardenas the cartel was
encroaching on territory controlled by
mayo and the other pacific coast
kingpins the source of the Gulf cartel's
power was a weapon unparalleled in the
history of organized crime under the
direction of Cardenas the cartel formed
a paramilitary unit known as los zetas
initially comprised of 31 corrupt
Mexican soldiers that have been trained
in the United States by the American
military Special Forces and Navy SEALs
these elite commandos had been persuaded
to defect from the Mexican Army within
short order the unit had swelled to 300
highly trained killers unlike the
undisciplined thugs the Pacific coast
cartels were using for muscle
the Zetas were a disciplined military
force that utilized modern military
tactics against their rivals this is
what kept me up at night he and the
other drug lords helplessly watched
panic-stricken
as the Zetas expanded the Gulf cartel's
sphere of influence with military
precision the Sinaloa cartel was losing
ground fast drastic action was necessary
before they were all swept under the
control of their gulf cartel rivals the
hot chick with the perky round tits
flashed the band and Kerry made a mental
note to find her later it was the summer
of 2000 at the 99x festival in Fort
Myers Kerry and his new band three days
apart
were jamming to mr. blueberry in front
of 10,000 drunken Floridians she was
sitting on some guy's shoulders not
unlike a couple of dozen other girls in
the crowd seriously I Carrie he
and the band had spent the last five
years playing bars and clubs up and down
the west coast of Florida
they'd performed at virtually every
college campus from the University of
Miami and South Florida to Valdosta
State University in Georgia Carrie and
the guys had opened for dela mitri and
sister Hazel and even toured with Creed
before Creed was Creed for over a year
and a half
Carrie and the band had been checked out
by lots of artists recruiters there had
been meetings with major record label
executives and talked of record deals
but none of them materialized his career
wasn't going anywhere he was 23 years
old tired and struggling financially
once the band set ended he caught up
with the hot chick she was with a group
of friends one of them was a guy named
Jason
he told Carrie if he needed any weed to
let him know I've got a plug straight
out of Mexico Carrie wasn't all that
interested but he knew his quasi adopted
brother Danny would be Daniels sweep and
Carrie had been friends since their
early teens due to family issues in the
sweep household Carrie's parents had
practically raised Danny as one of their
own he was selling dime bags of weed out
of his apartment not a lot of pot maybe
a pound a month so Carrie connected
Jason with Danny and a week later he was
holding 20 pounds of high-grade
lime-green Mexican popcorn more than
he'd expected Danny asked Carrie to help
him sell it Carrie made a few calls to a
couple of musician's buddies and it was
gone it was easy very very easy word got
around that Carrie had the hook up and
his cell started ringing Carrie bought
20 pounds a week layer which he quickly
sold
days after that Jason dropped off
another 20 pounds which carry quickly
moved then Jason fronted carry 40 pounds
in two weeks later another 40 pounds by
this point Jason had gotten himself
arrested he was hooked on oxycodone and
in a real jam Carrie agreed to get him
out of jail and into a rehab on one
condition
Jason had to introduce Carrie to his
plug a Mexican named Juan deep in the
Sierra Madre Mountains in Sinaloa Mexico
while the other West Coast kingpins were
gripped by paralyzing fear Maya
formulated a plan audacious in its scope
yet brilliant in its simplicity to
execute his plan however he would need
the assistance of his paisan Joaquin el
chapo guzman whom along with mayo were
the founders of the Sinaloa cartel
unfortunately chapo was serving a
20-year sentence in a Mexican prison for
drug trafficking and murder
on January 19 2001
my arrange to have chapo escaped from
prison by several guards once outside of
the facility's walls chapo was smuggled
out and whisked away by a helicopter
with Chapo's help Maya was able to
persuade Ignacio el nacho Coronel
Villarreal the leader of the cartel
controlling the Mexican state of Jalisco
no one knows precisely when the
conference occurred however at that
meeting in the city of Guadalajara my oh
and chapo convinced nacho to help them
create a federation from among the
Pacific coast cartels a super cartel
Maya's plan was to create a drug
trafficking behemoth strong enough to
mount a united front against the Tijuana
and Gulf cartel's
not you agreed and shortly thereafter
the federation was born in short order
Myo chapo and nacho met with arturo
beltrn Leyva a kingpin who controlled
his own organization in Sinaloa together
they entered into a strategic alliance
with Vicente Carrillo Fuentes the leader
of the Juarez cartel in Chihuahua then
the leaders of the Sonora Durango colima
and Michoacan cartels all agreed to
Maya's plan much like the superheroes
that came together to form the Avengers
a group of the most powerful
West Coast kingpins had joined forces to
create what became known formally as el
cartel del Pacifico the Pacific cartel
or less formally the Sinaloa Federation
the Federation operated on a horizontal
leadership structure the cartels
operatives each controlled certain
territories making up a decentralized
network of bosses who conducted business
to Reliance's together under the
leadership of Maya and chapo the cartel
launched offensives against the Tijuana
and Gulf cartel's by the time Kerry had
become established in the marijuana
trade the Sinaloa Federation had
eliminated all competition along the
border from San Diego California to El
Paso Texas 17 ports of entry were now
firmly under their control each of the
Federation's major factions worked with
one another to smuggle marijuana into
the United States where American based
organizations then distributed the
product throughout the country one of
these organizations was a large
distribution cell in Tucson Arizona
led by Juan Medina according to Kerry
Juan was very personable polite and
businesslike he stopped by Kerry's
apartment shortly after they'd been
introduced ostensibly to drop off 50
pounds of popcorn weed he looked around
my place we talked about my mom and dad
real nice guy what Kerry didn't
understand was that despite the majority
of the cartels operations being
decentralized their internal hierarchy
was very much a family business fathers
brothers sons nephews and in-laws occupy
the top positions in most of the
organizations as insurance everyone
holding a key position know their
associates families and more importantly
where their mothers live with that said
the potential for murderous reprisals
trickles down the chain Juan asked if
Kerry's family lived in Fort Myers and
inquired about his credit rating which
struck the musician is comical then he
gave Kerry 200 pounds of mids 150 pounds
more than Kerry had expected more than
Kerry and Danny could sell to their
stoner buddies the smell alone was
reason enough to motivate Kerry to move
the product quickly he tells me his
entire place wreaked of marijuana
fortunately the word was out and the
local dealers were eager to buy up all
the marijuana Keri and Danny could get
their hands on it was gone in less than
a week days later Juan showed up with
the RV and a metric ton of mids there
was no denying it after that Keri
Woolsey was a drug dealer within three
weeks he and Danny had gotten rid of
every single bud and they were sitting
on nearly a million dollars things only
escalated from there
despite the illegality like everything
Keri does he put everything he had into
the new venture he arranged for a remote
stash house code words and prearranged
drops he quickly put together a network
of local dealers throughout South
Florida for his part Juan set up a
second stash house stocked with several
tons of weed near Carey's place in short
order
Juan's cousin Miguel was swapping out
bags of cash for bales of fresh bud
weekly you have to understand says Danny
during one of our interviews Kerry acts
like he stumbled into the marijuana
business but he created it in my attempt
to obtain an accurate account of the
story I spoke with an email Danny dozens
of times he was on home confinement in
wearing an ankle monitor after being
released from prison in October 2016
despite his hippie like appearance
stoner doesn't adequately describe
Danny's character in fact Juan and his
associates nicknamed him Buki because he
resembled a long-haired Mexican musician
Marco Antonio Solis known as el Buki who
sings soft love ballads
however Danny has more of an edgy
hipster thing going on than a bohemian
flower child although Danny continually
told me he didn't want to say anything
disparaging about Kerry he did describe
his co-defendant as a serious and when
necessary a ruthless businessman carries
the boy next door
prom king band dude he tells me he makes
you believe in him and he takes you for
a ride his personality is the real story
seriously how does a prom king become a
drug dealer
despite carries intensity and drive
Danny says when Juan asked him if they'd
be willing to distribute cocaine
a much more lucrative product Kerry
flatly refused he thought of weed as a
soft core drug harmless the Sinaloa
Federation's creation had hindered the
spread of the Gulf Cartel but it hadn't
stopped it the Gulf Cartel was
continuing to seize territory through
the Zetas military-style campaign of
murder and intimidation my OHS plan had
merely postpone the inevitable he formed
the cartels own enforcement wing dubbed
los Matas Aida
the Zeta killers led by Chapo they were
tasked with eliminating each and every Z
member present in their territory
through torture beheadings and public
hangings offer freeway overpasses
throughout the federation's controlled
territory the Motta's ADA's waged war
against the commandos with no
discernible impact on the Gulf cartel's
overall expansion the federation was
losing the narco-trafficking war to a
superior military force and despite
their efforts
Jose el Cardenas and the Gulf Cartel
seemed unstoppable
fueled by desperation Myo contemplated a
second alliance he directed his trusted
counsel yetee Humberto Loya Castro to
contact the United States government
Loya himself an American attorney and a
member of the California Bar was wanted
by the US authorities after being
indicted in San Diego along with chapo
guzman a few years earlier the
indictment alleged that Loya had been
laundering drug money and bribing
officials charges which he had been
dodging for some time precisely where
and when the clandestine meeting took
place is unknown however according to
multiple federal court documents motions
transcripts affidavits etc the events
played out in the following manner
at the aforementioned meeting Loya
struck a deal with the u.s. government
an agreement that was approved at the
highest level of the US Attorney's
Office and the Drug Enforcement
Administration in Washington DC in
exchange for providing the Americans
with information about the Sinaloa
Federation to rivals the United States
agreed not to interfere with the
Federation's drug trafficking operations
in addition the US Attorney's Office
agreed to drop the indictment against
Loya upon the completion of his
cooperation and agreed not to prosecute
the Sinaloa cartel leadership we
everyone understood to include my Oh Sam
Botta and chapo guzman although the US
Attorney's Office resisted eventually
loyal was provided a formal document
acknowledging the existence of their
agreement in essence the US government
entered into an alliance with one of the
largest most violent criminal
organizations in the world run by two of
the most wanted men on the planet an
alliance which afforded the Sinaloa
cartel carte blanche to smuggle hundreds
of tons of illicit drugs into the United
States in exchange for providing the
Americans with the information needed to
wipe out the cartels rivals not a bad
deal for my oh and the boys drugs and
rock and roll have always been a part of
Danny's life prior to joining Kerry's
conspiracy he was booking bands and
managing bars in the downtown Fort Myers
club scene Danny was the go-to guy for
visiting rockers providing a safe place
to chill while they were in town I've
hung out with Eddie Vedder from Pearl
Jam and done blow with Marc Chavez the
lead singer of edema says Danny once in
early 2002 Jerry Cantrell of Alice in
Chains knocked on Danny's door we
partied all night my girlfriend had
written a message to me on the bathroom
mirror and lipstick you are so cool it's
a line from the movie true romance I
remember Jerry commented great movie bro
it's like I've always been part of that
scene always and forever
notwithstanding lawyers status as a
wanted fugitive by both the US and
Mexican authorities the Sinaloa
Federation's conciliate a began
attending monthly meetings with the DEA
on both sides of the border it was at
these meetings that Loya using
information provided by Maya and chapo
was able to manipulate their newest Ally
into surgically wiping out the
federation's competition the information
flowed through the DEA to the Mexican
military and the results were
unmistakable On February 10th 2002 the
Mexican Federal Police made its move to
arrest Ramon Arellano Felix in Mazatlan
Sinaloa the second-in-command of the
Tijuana cartel while attempting to evade
capture he was gunned down by the
federales less than a month later
in the state of Puebla Ramon's brother
Benjamin Arellano Felix the leader of
the Tijuana cartel was arrested by the
Mexican army
he was later extradited to the US and
sentenced to 25 years on racketeering
and money laundering charges the Swift
elimination of the Tijuana cartel 'he's
leadership crippled the organization
over the next several months dozens of
lower-level members of the Federation's
rivals were picked off by the Mexican
military in various raids throughout the
country then on March 14 2003 the
Mexican army captured the head of the
gulf cartel ocl Cardenas following a
shootout in Matamoros Tamaulipas Myo and
Chapo in a little over a year had
engineered the decapitation of both the
Tijuana and Gulf cartel's in the ensuing
chaos the Sinaloa Federation went on the
offensive and began to seize control of
their rivals territory nowhere was their
success more evident than in Baja
California with two of the our la no
Felix brothers out of the way my OHS
organization rose to challenge their
organization for control of the Tijuana
Plaza
Maya's top lieutenant and brother-in-law
German Ally virus was responsible for
overseeing the lucrative Tijuana San
Diego corridor for the Sinaloa cartel
and for ordering countless murders
during the federation's brutal war for
control of Tijuana with the help of
their American allies and the Mexican
military the Sinaloa Federation ascended
to primacy among the Mexican cartels and
was now the dominant drug trafficking
syndicate in the Western Hemisphere the
floodgates were opened Kerry liked the
black BMW x5 better than his Porsche 911
people were always staring at him when
he drove the Porsche it was a sparkly
metallic silver and very flashy the last
thing he wanted was attention the pot
business had been running hiccup free
for over three years Kerry had the posh
house with the big pool the classic 67
Mustang he'd always wanted and a couple
of luxury sport utility vehicles the
gorgeous girlfriend Rachel tell for a
licensed Florida real estate agent with
bottle blonde hair and Betty Boop curves
they vacationed in Cancun Mexico nassau
bahamas and costa rica there wasn't a
rock concert in south florida he didn't
attend
Carrie was still playing gigs on some
weekends not so much for the money but
because he loved it music was his life
the profits from the marijuana operation
were unreal and easily laundered using a
combination of rental properties and
flipping houses Carrie's illicit funds
were washed clean of their origins
everything had been going very smooth
that's when once guys started getting
busted in early 2004 one after another
says Dani Carrie got a little worried
it was either dumb luck or there was a
leak in Juan Medina's organization
either way the town was dry and Carrie
was desperate for product that's when he
decided Dani should take responsibility
for the transportation Carrie negotiated
a better price and coordinated the
clandestine meets Dani however was in
charge of transporting the loads I
dropped off $200,000 money carry owed
Juan in Tucson Arizona Dani rented a
room at a local hotel parked his rental
car in the rear of the building's
parking lot and went to his suite he
left the key in the ignition and the
cash in a suitcase sitting in the
passenger seat
one of Juan's guys picked up the rental
and returned at approximately two hours
later the money was gone and there was
300 pounds of weed packed into the trunk
recalls Dani I never saw anyone they
began recruiting friends and friends of
friends to drive bales of Bud from
Arizona to Florida drivers were paid ten
thousand dollars per load and there was
no shortage of South Floridians willing
to take the risk every other month
however Dani specifically transported
the millions of dollars necessary to
keep the product flowing on September
11th 2004 Rudolfo Carrillo Fuentes the
operational head of the Juarez cartel
his wife and two young children were
shopping at an upscale mall in Culiacan
Sinaloa flanked by private security an
off-duty police officer the drug kingpin
and his family strolled from shop to
shop outside in the malls parking lot a
group of assassins lay in wait Carrillo
Fuentes perused brand-name clothes
utterly unaware that months earlier he'd
been double-crossed
Maya had played the US government
perfectly the scheme had worked so well
in fact that chapo had gotten greedy he
decided they were now in a
position to betray the other members of
the Federation in order to take over
their territories Chapo had arranged a
secret conference in Monterrey Mexico
with Maya Arturo beltrn Leyva and a
disgruntled member of their first victim
juan jose el azul espera goes moreno the
second in command of the juarez cartel
during that meeting the three Sinaloa
Federation members and a Zul discussed
when and where to murder his boss when
Carrillo Fuentes and his family exited
the mall Chapo's hit squad opened fire
the cartel head and his wife were pelted
with automatic fire they died on the
pavement in the plaza as Maya and chapo
tried to seize control of the Juarez El
Paso corridor the city of Juarez erupted
into violence suddenly they were on the
front lines of the drug war seemingly
overnight chapo single act of betrayal
turned Juarez into the murder capital of
the world which in turn prompted the
Americans to double down in their
efforts to eliminate Maya's enemies the
double-cross sparked the collapse of the
Federation security pact with the Juarez
cartel and once again the core factions
of the Sinaloa cartel were fighting a
war on multiple fronts
this time however Mayo had a powerful
ally Uncle Sam Danny's guy was minding
his own business pumping unleaded into a
sedan when the Arizona Highway Patrol
cruiser pulled up beside him it was
around noon November 3rd 2004 somewhere
in Navajo County just east of the
interstate 40 and 17 junction in
Flagstaff a common route used by
traffickers transporting product
throughout the country it might have
been the vehicles Florida tag or the
drivers long stringy hair but something
about him didn't look right to the
trooper he damn sure wasn't from Arizona
before the driver could exit the gas
station slot a k-9 unit pulled to a stop
in front of his vehicle Danny called the
drivers burner prepaid cell phone
shortly after the troopers searched the
vehicle hello Danny
said an official voice the driver had
programmed Danny's first name into a
cell
still it sent a shock through Danny to
hear his name we've got your dope
and we're coming for you
he hung up and tossed his burner in the
trash frantically he dialed Kerry's
number what do I do
they've got our guy they had discussed
the scenario many times among each other
and with the drivers
if anyone were ever to get caught anyone
Kerry and Danny were responsible for
their legal fees nothing more get him a
lawyer replied Kerry and walk away he
knew the risks Danny did precisely as
Kerry and instructed however it bothered
him not wiring the drivers attorney
$15,000 but the walking away part if
anyone gets busted anyone Kerry said
many times you walk away no exceptions
Kerry and Danny didn't know Miguel had a
serious alcohol induced domestic
violence problem sometime in mid-2005 he
went on a drunken bender and began
slapping his girlfriend around this time
however she'd had enough when Miguel's
head was turned she stabbed him in the
back with a kitchen knife he stumbled
out of Juan's stash house and collapsed
in the front yard with the knife
sticking out of his back one of the
neighbors called 911 Fort Myers police
officers arrived they immediately placed
the Hispanic female under arrest during
a search of the residence the officers
discovered approximately 180 pounds of
mid-grade Mexican popcorn half a million
dollars in cash and several drug
Ledger's scribbled on nearly every page
was the alias music oh that was the name
Juan and his cousin had dubbed Carrie
with an alias that Carrie had embraced
the investigation was handed over to the
DEA and they began to make inquiries
shortly after the bust one stopped
answering his phone
subsequently his number was disconnected
and the town went dry after a couple of
months of listening to his dealers
begging him for bud Carrie hopped on the
Internet a quick search revealed a
significant amount of marijuana was
being imported into the United States
through San Diego in Southern California
the San Diego Tijuana corridor was under
the control of German LP ISA Olivares
Maya's top lieutenant known simply as g2
as American drug trafficking associates
jeez network was responsible for
smuggling marijuana into the United
States to the cartels distributors he's
been described by Justice Department
officials as a shadowy underworld figure
a member of the Sinaloa Federation's
upper echelon who had ordered countless
murders Kerry arrived at the catamaran
Hotel and Spa on Mission Beach north of
downtown San Diego around 7:00 p.m. he
immediately called an escort service not
for sex but because Kerry knew the girl
would know the local drug scene for 200
bucks the sexy little thing who showed
up at a suite took Kerry to a highbrow
hookah bar where the local players hung
out she introduced him to a guy that
hooked Kerry up with a plug one of Gees
distributors named Arturo le ASA
Martinez Barrera whom everyone called by
his nickname Apple's two days after
leaving the airport
I was talking to apples Carrie tells me
he had guys bringing over stuff from
Mexico through the Tijuana port of entry
Carrie in all sincerity describes apples
as a real nice guy and he couldn't beat
the price either
for five hundred bucks a pound Apple's
assured him he could provide Kerry with
as much mid-grade herb as he could
handle the only problem was Kerry which
meant Danny had to transport the product
at the time I didn't know apples was
working with the cartel but you know he
did seem kind of cartel ish Carrie had
Danny and Rachel Kerry's girlfriend
purchased 100 grand worth of money
orders the amounts ranged from five
hundred to a thousand dollars it took
them the better part of a day during our
interview Rachel tells me by this point
in their relationship she knew Carrie
was selling weed I was extremely naive
she says and she feels she had been
somewhat brainwashed by Carrie's charm I
didn't think it was a big deal nor did I
have any idea on what level it was
taking place the FedEx parcel containing
150 money orders from MoneyGram and
Western Union among other providers
arrived the following morning Carrie
convinced a friend of a buddies to drive
200 pounds of Bud from Southern
California to South Florida
apples guys loaded Carrie's guys old
Chevy with several bales of marijuana
and a few days later Carrie and Danny
were back in business
weeks later he arranged for a second
load and then a third within a month
Carrie was smuggling roughly a ton of
marijuana into the Sunshine State every
month before long Carrie and Danny were
flying out to Southern California a
couple of times per month they'd
coordinate the loads with apples and
afterwards they'd spend a few days
partying sometimes they'd pick up two or
three strippers from pure platinum and
go out clubbing in the Gaslamp District
in San Diego or the Floridians would
drive up to LA and get hammered at the
Viper Room pull a couple of strippers
out of the seventh bail and go listen to
some bands rock at the whisky a go-go on
the Sunset Strip Danny would then fly
back to Fort Meyers unload the bales of
herb at the stash house and distribute
them to their chain of dealers
throughout South Florida Danny went with
a classic decoy strategy whereby
transporters use a decoy vehicle to spot
law enforcement and act as a diversion
for the chase car transporting the
actual marijuana on May 20th 2005 during
one of the runs the guy driving the
decoy vehicle Anthony Keene got pulled
over by the Highway Patrol in parachute
Colorado just east of the Utah border
the troopers dog signaled there were
drugs in the car however a search of the
vehicle at the local Highway Patrol's
office revealed nothing the trooper
realizing he'd pulled over a decoy
surreptitiously popped a GPS device
underneath the decoys rear wheel well
and let the driver go
despite Danny telling Anthony not to
rendezvous with the driver of the chase
vehicle he met with the other driver at
a motel a few miles from the Highway
Patrol's office within minutes the
parking lot was crawling with law
enforcement Kerry was at San Diego's
International Airport waiting to board a
return flight to Florida when his cell
rang Thrifty Car Rental wanted to notify
him that his rental had been seized by
the DEA what Kerry exclaimed feigning
confusion that's crazy why would they do
that the employee from thrifty side he'd
heard it all before
it was the DEA so I'm gonna go out on a
limb here and say it had something to do
with drugs $80,000 in weed with a street
value of 200 grand was seized Danny
hired an attorney for the drivers but he
and Kerry didn't slow down Danny
simply recruited more guys and loaded up
some more rentals during the subsequent
investigation the name's Danny and
muzychko came up however the DEA was
never able to put a case together
against them kiri felt sleepy and
slightly dizzy but that was about it his
extra potent marijuana brownie party had
been a bust
none of his buddies had gotten high he
pulled the recipe off the internet
admittedly Kerry had added more pop than
the directions called for he wanted them
to be extra potent and he let the butter
simmer a little too long in spite of
this Kerry felt the brownie should have
given them more than a fleeting sugar
high in drowsiness he woke up on the
couch around 2:00 a.m. and Kerry could
have sworn he was inside a SpongeBob
SquarePants cartoon he was leaking so
much perspiration he thought he was
melting Kerry's heart was thumping so
hard he was certain it was going to
burst out of his chest like when Roger
Rabbit saw Jessica Rabbit for the first
time Kerry's pet octopus mr. squiggles
was staring at him from his wall sized
150 gallon aquarium he ran one of his
long tentacles across his throat
signifying death and the room began to
spin Kerry knew he was dying mr.
squiggles wouldn't steer him wrong he
knew things Kerry grabbed the phone and
punched in his father's number woke him
up and gasped Papa there's something
wrong with my heart he told his father
about the extra potent marijuana
brownies i poisoned myself you got to
come get me take me to the hospital
Kerry dude chuckled his father calm down
you can't die from bad pot brownies
several of Kerry's buddies had stayed
over to sleep.you to drive and they were
now lying on the floor laughing
uncontrollably at Kerry
I poisoned all my friends Papa cried
Kerry ignoring his father we're all
gonna die what have I done
no one's dying Oh God Papa I'm gonna
miss you so much
Kerry begins to sob his father insisted
Kerry was having a bad trip but mr.
squiggles had been watching from his
tank and he looked sad
he looked concerned
he knew Kari was about to die promise me
you'll take care of mr. squiggles he's a
good octopus papa I love him so much
no one's gonna die side his father
you're just really really stoned dude on
the other side of the border as the drug
war raged on Loya continued to meet with
his DEA handler and other Department of
Justice officials using information
provided by mile and chapo the US
government coordinated multiple raids
directing the Mexican military's efforts
and the Sinaloa cartel's rivals
continued to suffer losses one after
another the Tijuana
Gulf and Juarez cartels operations were
disrupted and their leadership captured
or killed the US government was so
enmeshed in its relationship with the
Sinaloa cartel that on several occasions
the Americans alerted Loya to
apprehension operations being conducted
by the Mexican military raids being
conducted in its territories where the
cartels leadership was believed to be
hiding essentially the US government was
tipping off my oh and chapo to evade
capture so as to protect the
relationship meanwhile in Baja
California with the help of the Mexican
military G was squeezing out the Tijuana
cartel and taking over their drug
smuggling routes control of the Tijuana
Plaza flipped over Tamayo
with G being responsible for
coordinating the Sinaloa cartel's
narcotics trafficking activity through
the Tijuana San Diego corridor including
the importation of multi-ton shipments
of marijuana into the United States with
Kerry and Danny's trafficking operation
running trouble-free G contacted Apple's
and requested an introduction he wanted
to talk with the American narco that was
moving so much of his product
they met at a market in La Jolla
California north of San Diego G's
bodyguards a couple of hard looking
Mexican thugs arrived first driving what
Danny described as a super badass black
harley-davidson limited-edition Ford
crew cab dually G pulled into the
parking lot less than a minute later in
a caramel Bentley Danny waited in the
driver's seat of his Toyota Sequoia SUV
stare
at the Mexicans in the truck while carry
apples and G spoke inside the cartel
leaders vehicle he was an older thin
Mexican with a head full of hair G
wanted to know how much product they
could handle Kerry knew this was an
opportunity to expand the South Florida
operation throughout the state we could
do another thousand pounds a month said
Kerry maybe another ton G pinched his
chin pensively and contemplated the
amount you know the Mexicans saying
Plata o Plomo
silver or the lead he asked with a
Spanish accent nervously Apple's eyes
started between the two men Kerry not at
his understanding ng continued I have a
man at the border a Border Patrol agent
this man we have an understanding he
then asked how long it would take for
Kerry and Danny to move 20 tons of
marijuana Jesus
20 tons the plan required them to open a
concrete company and purchase two cement
mixers in San Diego the cartel with the
help of the agent would then use the
trucks to smuggle the marijuana across
the border they would then be placed on
flatbeds and transported to South
Florida it was a 20 ton deal says Kerry
they had it all arranged the border
agent everything in the midst of Kerry
and Danny incorporating the cement
company leasing a warehouse and looking
for the mixers Juan Medina call he'd
been missing in action for over a year
and he was back he had vehicles loaded
with product on route to Florida and he
wanted to rekindle their business
relationship the Floridians were
spending more and more time in San Diego
they'd grown tired of blowing a grand a
night on hotel rooms so they purchased a
place in La Jolla the condo was right on
the beach and reasonably priced at
roughly half a million dollars the porn
star jenna jameson and a few other be
actors lived in the building while South
Florida was home Kerry loved Southern
California he enjoyed the anonymity and
especially the beautiful women according
to Danny Carrie had quite an effect on
women it wasn't uncommon for him to go
out drinking and pull a couple of
bombshells take them back to his place
in La Jolla and spend the night rocking
their worlds while the girls were flying
on ecstasy by all outward
Frances Kerry was a rock star the place
was booming from abanda apples took
Kerry to a nouveau riche Mexican club in
downtown Chula Vista 400 half-drunk
palette osos and cowboy hats and boots
and guapa Chiquita's with silky black
hair and deeply bronzed skin that
Kerry's girlfriend Rachel back in Fort
Myers would have killed for halfway
through their third round of tequila
shots apple whispered something in the
bandleaders ear I told him you're a rock
and roller shouted apples when he got
back to the table they want you to sing
sing white boys sing Carrie doubted the
band knew any rock out of professional
courtesy he told the bandleader he
appreciated the offer but I don't know
any Spanish songs you know scorpions he
replied in broken English Carrie
couldn't help but grin we can play still
loving you you know this song of course
but suddenly it occurred to carry that
singing in a Mexican club may very well
be one of the cooler things he'd do in
his life 30 seconds later the lights
dimmed and the electric guitars power
course rhythmically growled the crowd
went silent turned towards the stage and
glared an irritated confusion Carrie's
heart almost stopped then the lights
surged slightly and the strobes
flickered Kerry stepped forward belted
out time it needs time to win back your
love again and the crowd slowly searched
towards the stage the men's
weather-beaten brows and the gorgeous
mamacita's doll-like eyes gazed at the
gringo according to Kerry had fight baby
fight win back your love again you could
hear the building settling and when he
closed out the song with I'm still
loving you goosebumps rippled across the
arms of every last Soul and the place
erupted into a roar after seeing Kerry
perform later that night apples asked
him why he was selling drugs when he
could sing like that I didn't have a
good answer then Kerry tells me and to
this day I don't have one his eyes well
up and the words seemed to catch in his
throat I wanted so bad to be a famous
rock star you know when I should have
been satisfied with being a talented
musician
apples stopped at the San Ysidro Port of
Entry he couldn't go into Mexico he was
illegally in the US
still it made Danny nervous leaving
apples behind Carrie had been summoned
by gee to Tijuana and he was more than a
little concerned about it I wasn't about
to meet with a cartel member in
Mexico says Carrie they were buying
product from the Sinaloa cartel through
two different plugs and neither Carrie
or Danny knew what the rules were they
were out of their element in very
dangerous territory Danny said he'd go
he didn't see any issue with it at all
he's crazy fearless like that on the
Mexican side of the border
jeez special edition Ford was waiting at
the curb black with dark tinted windows
the COPO smiled warmly at Danny and
waved him in Danny was driven thirty
minutes outside of Tijuana to a complex
of desolate warehouses nothing but dense
sand and tumbleweeds armed guards walked
the perimeter hardened men with black
mustaches in rudimentary prison tattoos
inside there were a dozen Mexicans
stripping down multiple vehicles and
reassembling others danny estimated
there was approximately 30 tons of
marijuana in that one warehouse alone
the COS tools were stacked from floor to
ceiling more than half the warehouse was
occupied by hundreds upon hundreds of
bales he and the older Mexican sat in a
makeshift office you move mucho product
he said and you will always pay this is
good this is why we trust you you always
pay G's face became tense and he told
Danny he'd once dealt with a man from
South Florida a man that didn't pay I
had to send my people to this man's
house I had to hurt this man you
understand I understand said Danny and
he started to wonder why he'd been
brought out to the middle of nowhere
always pay understood good Carrie and
Danny had set up the bogus concrete
company in warehouse back in Florida it
was packed with bags of concrete stacked
on pallets there were lots of cement
tools
trowels Electric mixers and even a
forklift everything you needed to run a
concrete company however hidden behind
the veil of legitimacy were several
top-load chest freezers each brimming
with hundreds of pounds of primo weed
we've been looking at trucks said Danny
but they had yet to purchase one in
truth due to the additional product one
was providing they were slightly
overwhelmed at the moment like most
people in the drug industry part of
their problem was laundering their
proceeds they couldn't exactly buy the
trucks with cash it's gonna happen
you've got my word
the older Mexican smile I like you and
your rock-and-roll friend music oh he
said then he dropped the hammer I want
you two to be the distributor for the
southeastern United States
excuse me G explained while they were
waiting for the cement mixer trucks to
be purchased they could begin shipping
tons of marijuana through US Customs
under the guise of various cement
products he assured Danny he had a
crooked customs agent that would pass
the shipment through he seemed like a
good guy said Danny solid the kind of
guy you could trust neither Danny nor
Keri knew that G's branch of the Sinaloa
cartel had cannibalized the Tijuana
cartel members through dozens of arrests
and murders and crouching on their
territory so thoroughly that the Baja
California organization had been reduced
to a few sells the cartel was almost
non-existent by this point but that
wasn't enough from Maya and chapo on
August 14 2006 Javier Arellano Felix the
leader of the remaining elements of the
Tijuana cartel was fishing off the coast
of Baja when his vessel was boarded by
the US Coast Guard he was arrested for
running a criminal enterprise
and money laundering and subsequently
sentenced to life in prison it was the
final nail in the cartels coffin when I
stepped back
across the border I was sick to my
stomach recalls Danny the company and
everything in it was in his name and
he'd just agreed to start receiving
1,000 pound shipments of weed on a
bi-weekly basis we were so far over our
heads it wasn't even funny
within the bowels of the steel shipping
container were seven pallets piled four
feet high with cheap gray square 16 by
16 by one-inch thick concrete tile
pavers the pallets weighed approximately
1/2 ton per and contained approximately
200 pounds of weed the bud was scattered
between the large cement tiles and bales
wrapped in multiple layers of cellophane
and motor oil 1,200 pounds of mids mixed
in with three and a half tons of pavers
the container was one of thousands that
arrived at port Largo on the Florida
Gulf that day less than 3% are ever
physically inspected by US Customs
neither Kari or Danny knows how customs
discovered it's true contents nor did
any of the documents I reviewed give any
indication it's possible one of the many
highly trained drug dogs picked up the
scent or maybe the containers weight was
off could have been random no one but
customs knows for sure what I'm certain
of is that there was no crooked customs
agent there to waive the container
through or tip off anyone about the
discovery once the 1200 pounds of drugs
were discovered using state-of-the-art
law enforcement techniques the agents
quickly linked it to Danny his name was
on the invoice when they ran him through
NCIC however Customs was directed to two
DEA arrests in 2005 one in Colorado and
the other in Florida each arrest report
contained Danny's name and a Spanish
alias around the same time the agents
were wondering who in the hell is music
Oh Kerry and his band were rocking the
Versace Mansion on South Beach
we played New Year's Eve while customs
was trying to connect the dots recalls
Kerry the party was teeming with
celebrities bringing in 2007 listening
to Kerry sing classic rock adrian
grenier from Entourage Ben Affleck and
Matt Damon were in the crowd of several
hundred the stage was made at glass says
Kerry the whole
thing was suspended over the pool each
time he and the band looked down they
were staring directly through the clear
chlorinated water to the drain it was
tripping me out sometime around 10
o'clock a transformer blew South Beach
went dark and the music stopped carrying
the band mingled with the guests by
candlelight in silence at midnight he
watched the fireworks over the beach
surrounded by Lenny Kravitz and Tommy
Hilfiger Carrie was living the life of a
rock star
partying with celebrities dating
gorgeous women and making millions in
reality it was the beginning of the end
house was under heavy surveillance
agents from the DEA and customs
enforcement were burrowed into
undercover vehicles sprinkled throughout
the surrounding commercial buildings
Danny confirmed the containers arrival
on Wednesday morning Valentine's Day
after weeks of incomprehensible delays
the pallets of cement pavers were now
sitting on the back of a flatbed each
was bound by clear industrial plastic
and covered by tarps Danny helped the
driver unload the pallets he used the
forklift to lift and drop each one of
them inside the warehouse while trying
to make small talk with the driver
something about the guy didn't seem
right but Danny didn't let it bother him
100 yards away an agent snapped photos
of Danny from the back of a white van he
got a couple of carry slowly driving by
the buildings in his Porsche as danny
closed and locked the roll-up door and a
real nice shot of the sports cars
personalized license tag wools the agent
staked out the place around the clock
for two days
says Danny the narcos returned on
Thursday to unload the pallets Danny
went in the front while Cary snuck in
the back he was certain something was
wrong the delivery had taken too long
they cut through the clear plastic and
started unpacking the concrete tiles in
search of the pot stacking each on the
floor that's when Cary noticed a thick
black wire running between several
pavers near the inner tiles he grabbed
the cord pulled and yanked it until he
came upon a small black rectangular
plastic box with a little green light he
whipped around to face Danny what the
hell is this
gasped Kerry holding the rectangular
object there was no doubt in either of
their minds they were staring at a
tracking device all Danny could muster
was bro we're so Kerry dropped
the Box to the floor and stomped on it
and smashing it into shards
terrified they quickly abandoned the
warehouse and the 1.7 million dollars
worth of weed Kerry raced out the back
and Danny exited through the front he
drove home and immediately called apples
that's not possible he said suspiciously
we have people on the inside apples in
jeez guy at customs would have contacted
him nonetheless at 7:00 a.m. the next
morning on February 17th
the agents knocked on Danny's door he
was waiting for them they wanted me to
give up music Oh laughs Danny the
government needed someone to connect
carry with deceased cash and marijuana
from the stash houses vehicles in the
warehouse but I wouldn't do it
Danny was taken to the Federal Building
in downtown Fort Myers because he'd
refused to cooperate
Danny was denied bond he called Kerry
from the County Jail and told him they
got me bro it's rotten eggs which was
code for they knew everything
rotten eggs bro Danny expected Carrie to
walk away like he'd always done I
couldn't abandon him Danny's as much of
a brother to me as my own biological
brothers recalls Carrie he visited Danny
in the county jail over the next several
months
peaking in code on the visitation phone
and writing each other notes through the
glass partition over and over Danny told
Carrie to stop coming to move on with
his life
Carrie opened a nightclub in Cape Coral
called martinis and tried to resume his
life but he never stopped visiting Danny
they were threatening Danny with 20
years and all he'd say was it I'll
do the time Carrie broke all contact
with apples and Juan he focused on his
new relationship with misty a beautiful
dental hygienist he tried to stay busy
the ex marijuana trafficking musician
began writing music again and he prayed
that the DEA wouldn't be able to connect
him to the conspiracy in spite of the
was seized by customs gee still expected
to be compensated there wasn't much he
could do about the gringos but apples
was another story unfortunately two
months after the loss of the product and
Danny's arrest before he could quash the
debt with his boss apples dropped off
several hundred pounds of marijuana to a
distributor in Newport News Virginia he
was completely unaware that his guy had
been arrested weeks earlier and was now
cooperating with the local authorities
before apples could pull his SUV out of
the parking lot
multiple unmarked vehicles surrounded
him Newport News police narcotics
officers arrested the drug trafficker a
search of his vehicle revealed
approximately four hundred thousand
dollars in cash Apple's was held on a
charge of illegal reentry pending
federal charges of conspiracy to possess
with intent to distribute 1000 kilograms
or more of marijuana
the thing about cartel members is how
unforgiving they are it didn't matter to
gee that Apple's was facing a 15-year
prison sentence someone had to pay in
August 2007 one of apple's brothers
Martin Martinez finished his shift at
work a clothing store in Tijuana and
headed home his vehicle was found weeks
later stripped to the frame Martin's
body however was never recovered Jorge
Martinez Apple's second brother was
kidnapped months later his body was
dumped in the street in front of his
parents house outside Tijuana the corpse
was mutilated and riddled with bullets
did a crime apples told the judge in
broken English at his sentencing but the
thing is if I knew I'm going to lose two
brothers because these people in Mexico
lost their load I should not do it
Arturo apples Martinez Barrera was
sentenced to a term of 151 months
Cary's ex-girlfriend rachel was
confronted by the DEA agents as she
approached her dry cleaners there were
two of them they asked me if I knew
Danny sweep
she says Rachel hadn't seen Danny in
years so it took her off-guard the
questions quickly focused on Carrie and
the case they were trying to build
against him at that point
recalls Rachel I told them I wasn't
talking to them without a lawyer and I
walked away over the next month
according to Rachel
the agents contacted her several more
times they made threats they indicated
they were in possession of evidence that
she was complicit and carries marijuana
trafficking ring and money laundering
Rachel remembered the $100,000 in money
orders she and Danny had mailed to
Carrie in California when the DEA
confronted me with the evidence they had
against me I was horrified she wasn't
about to risk going to prison over her
ex-boyfriends illegal activities it
wasn't my burden to bear when Rachel met
Carrie in the parking lot of the local
grocery store she was wearing a
microphone connected to a small recorder
concealed in her pants she felt sick
over what she was doing the agents were
sitting in an unmarked vehicle less than
30 hours away she handed Carrie a
subpoena to appear in front of a federal
grand jury what do I do
she asked they're gonna ask what I know
Rachel you can't tell them you know
anything just just look I'm gonna get
you a lawyer and but I do know stuff the
real estate agent and the cars and that
time I bought all those money orders I'm
not going to jail for you at this point
Carrie realized she was wearing a wire
and he ended the conversation but the
damage was done weeks later on September
18 2007 the agents raided Carrie's house
they seized several hundred grand and
vehicles and over four million dollars
worth of property somewhere in Mexico
Loya forwarded information to the DEA
regarding Maya and Chapo's top
lieutenant Alfredo beltrn Leyva the
head of the beltrn Leyva faction of the
Sinaloa cartel along with several of his
key people subsequently on January 20th
2008 alfredo was arrested by the Mexican
army in Culiacan
within weeks a dozen of Alfredo's
associates were arrested
shortly thereafter Alfredo's brother
took the remnants of the organization
and formed at the beltrn Leyva cartel
with the near complete dismantling of
the Sinaloa cartel's rivals lawyer's job
was done he wanted out in accordance
with the cooperation agreement he had
entered into with the US government the
US Attorney's Office dismissed his
indictment still the constantly area of
the Sinaloa cartel leadership Loya then
arranged for Maya's son
Vicente sambata a trusted lieutenant
within his organization to assume the
role of liaison between the Sinaloa
cartel's leadership and the US
government Maya's goal being the
continued relationship between the
Americans and the cartel permitting tons
of narcotics to be smuggled into North
America the antithesis of the purported
war on drugs
according to Vicente de tourny DEA agent
Caston on told his client that the deal
had been approved by the federal
prosecutor in Washington DC and
high-ranking DEA officials as a result
the Alliance continued
on August 4th 2008 Danny and Carrie were
both sentenced it's funny laughs Danny
Carrie and I used to joke about August
4th in the movie Terminator that's the
day Skynet declared war on humanity
Judgment Day on that date the courtroom
was packed with members of Carrie's
family
however they were there to support both
the defendants Danny's attorney David
Brenner did what he could for his client
these people he told US District Judge
John Steele pointing to the woolsley
clan became mr. sweeps family he and
Carrie woolsley were very close so close
in fact they actually called each other
brothers that was part of the problem
Danny's refusal to turn on Carrie no one
knew how the judge would handle the
loyalty among thieves
Danny was sentenced to 11 years and 11
months to be served in the Federal
Bureau of Prisons minutes after the
court pronounced judgment on Danny
Carrie stepped into the court for his
sentencing while laying out the extent
of Kerry's drug trafficking organization
the US prosecutor characterized him as
incredibly business savvy
he described the sophistication of his
laundering operation Daniel's sweep was
sort of the party side but mr. woolsley
was clearly the business side of the
equation he was far more focused on on
trying to make money the prosecutor
detailed the ever-increasing amounts of
marijuana being bought sold and
distributed when looking at the
organization mr. woolsley was the
kingpin
Carrie tells me he was distraught during
his sentencing he had been dating misty
for over a year and she'd agreed to
stick with him for six years of his
incarceration upon release they would
get married and have kids
unfortunately in order for Kerry to be
released from prison within six years he
had to receive less than an eight-year
sentence she was sitting in the
courtroom recalls Kerry when the judge
said 151 months of incarceration I
remember looking back at her tears
pouring out of her eyes and she mouthed
I'm sorry I can't
crazy right that's what I remember most
about that day
after a prolonged gun battle with the
Mexican military in Tijuana acting on
DEA information Eduardo Arellano Felix
was captured on October 25th 2008 the
arrest of Eduardo closed the book on the
r-la know Felix band of brothers the
Tijuana Plaza had finally fallen under
the complete control of the Sinaloa
cartel agent Caston on had tried to
cancel due to a news article regarding
the cartel members possible presence in
the city but Vicente refused his father
and chapo had information for the agents
someone they wanted removed the longer
he stayed in the city the more dangerous
the situation
Vicente was after all wanted by both the
US and Mexican law enforcement hours
later
Vicente attended the meeting with the
Americans at the Sheraton hotel located
directly across the street from the u.s.
embassy with Loya present he provided
agent Caston on and the other DEA agents
present with information regarding rival
cartel activity and the location of a
high-ranking rival cartel member early
the next morning after Vicente had
returned to his suite based on a tip the
Mexican military raided the Four Seasons
Hotel and arrested Mayas son despite the
fact that he had an agreement with the
United States government
the Americans double-cross to be sente
indicted him and demanded his
extradition while he sat in prison
waiting to be transported across the
border the acting commander of the
beltrn Leyva cartel
Arturo beltrn Leyva was killed by the
Mexican Marines during a raid at his
residence on December 16 2009 the
remaining beltrn Leyva brothers blamed
Maya and chapo for providing the
authorities with the information
utilized to ambush Arturo resulting in
an ever escalating series of retaliatory
acts the following year on July 29 2010
the last of the Corps Sinaloa Federation
leaders nacho Coronel the head of the
Jalisco faction went out in a blaze of
glory during the Mexican military's
attempt to arrest him
despite his arrangement with the US
government Vicente was extradited to
Chicago once in the United States the
Americans denied they had a quid pro quo
agreement with Vicente or any other
leader of the Sinaloa cartel unlike Loya
Vicente had nothing in writing
later however the entire affair was on
the verge of disclosure when the federal
judge in Vicente skate ordered the
government to produce all material
concerning the nature of its
relationship with the Sinaloa cartel
suddenly the US Attorney's Office in
Chicago invoked the classified
information Procedures Act classifying
all materials related to the case
including the cartels agreement with the
US government the government even
invoked national security concerns to
prevent Loya from being summoned as a
witness by Vicente stew fence lawyers
rather than run the risk of disclosing
their arrangement to public scrutiny the
US attorney made Vicente an offer he
couldn't refuse on April 3rd 2013
Vicente pled guilty to conspiracy to
smuggle hundreds of tons of marijuana
cocaine and heroin into the United
States what should have been a mandatory
life sentence in exchange for a 10-year
prison sentence with time served and
time off for good behavior
he should be released at some time in
2018 as a result of zem badas plea deal
any chance of the full extent of the US
government's complicity with the Sinaloa
cartel's leadership ever becoming public
via trial were deep sixed as for his
father however six separate indictments
across the United States have been
returned charging mayo and chapo with
overseeing a massive international drug
conspiracy at least three of those
indictments charged German G Olivarez
with drug-related charges and murder in
the furtherance of drug trafficking the
tijuana plaza remains under miles and
G's control although the warehouses
Danny visited are no longer being
utilized after the Mexican military
raided the complex and seized over 100
tons of marijuana unlike my o and G
chapo got cocky despite knowing the US
government was no longer protecting him
in Myo he ventured out of his safe haven
in the Sierra Madre Mountains chapo was
arrested by the Mexican military in a
hotel while visiting with his former
beauty queen wife he subsequently
escaped from prison on July 11th 2015
through a tunnel nearly a mile long but
was recaptured following a shootout with
the Mexican Marines On January 8th 2016
chapo has been extradited to the United
States where he is currently awaiting
trial one Medina Gonzalez is still a
fugitive on the run somewhere in Mexico
you
at Danny's sentencing the drug smuggler
apologized to the court and admitted he
would have done things differently given
another chance
in all honesty he feels the government
allowed tons of marijuana to be imported
into the country drugs that he and Kerry
were sentenced for but no one in the US
government was ever prosecuted
however Danny had to go to prison for
nearly a dozen years for the same thing
the government let the cartel do on a
massive scale
both he and Kerry received more time
than Vicente sam bodda bro gasped Carrie
when I laid out what can best be
described as the US government's
collusion with the Sinaloa cartel their
agreement helped fuel a drug war that
cost the lives of tens of thousands of
Mexican citizens and law enforcement
officers on both sides of the border and
flooded the United States among other
countries with incalculable tons of
illegal drugs the weed you and Danny
were selling was purchased through the
Sinaloa Federation I informed him every
single bud in a very real sense the u.s.
helped create the Federation the largest
most powerful drug trafficking
organization the world has ever seen by
all appearances the American government
had endorsed the importation of the
marijuana that Kerry and Danny were
distributing that's crazy bro says Kerry
he shakes his head and lets out a long
harsh sigh I'm not even a big pot smoker
Myo still has a problem the founding
member of the Sinaloa cartel's allies in
the American government have abandoned
him he and G are currently fighting a
multi-front narco trafficking war
against their competitors his trusted
family members and key associates are
locked up in US prisons rival cartels
are encroaching on his smuggling routes
shipments are being seized by Drug
Enforcement and a new generation of drug
traffickers decades younger than my o
and G are making their lives hell
despite being wanted by both the
American and Mexican government's my
Azam bada has never spent so much as one
night in jail during his 50-year career
as a drug trafficker but he's now in his
70s and he knows his time is running out
the President of Mexico recently turned
down an offer by Myo to retire in
exchange for an agreement of
non-prosecution his enemies are coming
for him
it's a problem
you